Hello and welcome back.
Congratulations we are finally finished with another classification of patterns were all done with the
structural patterns we studied around.
I think it was seven patterns and now I just want to provide a summary mainly I wanted to identify and
tell you the different difference in the similarities between some of the patterns because there's a
lot of the pattern and structures are very similar so you want to understand what you learned and how
things are similar and when they should be used.
So the first one I want to talk about was the adapter versus the bridge.
Just as an overview there are many similarities between a lot of the patterns especially in the participants
in the collaboration.
Remember the participants are really the objects that are used in the pattern.
The collaborators are how those objects work together.
So you see a lot of commonality in terms of composition aggregation how the inheritance hierarchies
are working how the interfaces are implementing and so forth all the interaction techniques a lot of
similarities and with the adapter versus the bridge they're similar as well they both promote flexibility
by providing a level of indirection to another object they also both involve forwarding requests to
this object from an interface other than its own.
The key difference between these two patterns lies in their intents.
The adapter focuses on resolving incompatibilities between two existing interfaces typically in a legacy
system.
The code was already written one interfaces were another interfaces were and you need to use them together
you can't use it together so you add that layer and between that that adapter and now these two interfaces
can talk to one another.
The bridge is different in its intent and that the bridge bridge is an abstraction and it's potentially
numerous implementations so it provides a stable interface to clients as it lets you vary the classes
that implement it.
I mean it's exactly what it says it's a bridge and so understand the differences and similarities between
the two.
They also are often used at different points in the software lifecycle and adapter is usually necessary
when you discover that these two incompatible classes need to work together and you also want to avoid
replicating any code the user the bridge is usually used in a new design it understands upfront that
the abstraction must have several implementations in both may evolve independently so the adapter pattern
makes things work after they're designed and the bridge makes them work before they are designed so
the adapter versus bridge understand those similarities differences.
Also the composite versus the decorator both of these have similar structure diagrams both rely on recursive
composition to organize an open ended number of objects.
The decorator is designed to let you add responsibilities to objects without subclasses rights and alternatives
to sub classing.
We can extend the functionality by having concrete decorators it avoids the explosion of subclasses
that can arise from trying to cover every combination of responsibilities statically.
Instead you do it dynamically the composite has a different intent than the decorator it focuses on
structure and classes so that many related object can be treated uniformly.
Remember we had these grouping of objects these smaller objects didn't matter if they are part of a
group a composition or if they were individual objects you could treat them the same multiple objects
treated as one you didn't have to add any if or else statement saying oh is it a composite.
Does it have multiple leaves and so forth.
But the composites focus is not on the Ebell embellishment but on the representation both of these patterns
are often used together.
They both lead to the kind of design in which you can build applications just by plugging objects together
without defining any new classes they usually consist of an abstract class with some subclasses that
are composites some that are direct decorators in some that implement the fundamental building blocks
of the system both composites and decorators will have a common interface and that is a common the common
interface and the composite is the concrete component that implements that interface and the decorator
is a leaf.
When you use them together.
So the decorator acts as a leaf and the composite acts of the concrete component.
The decorator is also similar to the proxy.
Both patterns describe how to provide a level of indirection to an object.
Both implementations keep a reference to another object to which they forward requests say they'll both
have a has a relationship but they differ by their intent just like the previous two examples.
The proxy pattern composes an object and provides an identical interface to clients.
It's not concerned with attaching or detaching properties dynamically.
It's not designed for recursive composition.
Its intent is to provide a stand in for a subject when it's inconvenient and undesirable to access the
subject indirectly or subject directly it lives on a remote machine has restricted access or is persistent
the decorator is when the component provides only part of the functionality in one or more decorators
furnish the rest so the decorator addresses the situation where it objects.
Total functionality cannot be determined at compile time.
Right.
It's dynamic.
The recursive composition is an essential part and this is not the case in the proxy.
The proxy focuses on one relationship between the proxy and its subject and that relationship can be
expressed statically.
Now the differences do not mean that these patterns cannot be combined.
You might envision a proxy decorator that adds functionality to a proxy or a decorator proxy that embellishes
a remote object so that's it.
That's all I have on the structural design patterns I wanted to just add this last tidbit and you probably
noticed some of the similarities and differences in these patterns are really the ones that that were
really apparent with their similarities.
So understand this understand how to use them and you should be good to go.
Thank you.